So let's look at the four types of method references, the first method reference type is a static method
and the method reference example there is the containing class, colon, colon, static method name.
We saw an example of that in the last video.
The next method reference type is an instance method on an object.
The method reference example for that one is containing object colon colon instance method name.
The third method reference top is an instance method on an arbitrary object of a particular type.
The method example there is containing type colon colon method name and the fourth and final method
reference type is a reference to a constructor.
The method example was class name colon.
Colon new.
Well, so let's look at some of this in code now.
We need a new class in our streams project.
We'll call this one method reference.
Some code.
So this code consists of a test person class, as you can see at the top there, which contains firstly
a public static field, which is an array of names as well as a name field.
It's got an initial answer that randomly populates the name field.
We've got a two string and also a get named method.
They're also going to print static method, which is static, which are using a method reference.
We've also got a print instance method that are using a method reference.
Now, the method reference class itself, it contains our main method.
Them demonstrating, using the very common system out, coal and coal and precleared method reference
to each element.
You say that online 49 also demonstrating each of the four types of method references are talked about
in the slide earlier in this video.
You can see the name on screen static method on a class line.
Fifty three instance method on an object line.
Fifty seven.
It's his method on an arbitrary object line sixty two and a reference to a constructor line sixty five.
We run this.
There's the airport there, you may have noticed that intelligence shows warnings where lambda expressions
are used, where method references could be used.
So I want to look at one more example to create another class.
I'm going to call this one functional interface arguments.
Person card.
So looking at this code, I've got a functional interface called my interface, but a class called my
class, which implements the functional interface, my interface, Democrat class, functional interface
arguments and our main method.
And the main method creates three types of lambda expressions and passes each to a method on the same
class that accepts a my interface argument.
And looking specifically at the code there.
We've got a local variable assigned a lambda expression then Pasto to method going to lambda expression
passed directly to a method.
We've got a method reference using new my class call and call and do something passed or method and
a fourth, we've got a method invocation which returns a more interface result, and that's passed to
method.
We've also got the execute interface method.
That's a sample operation that accepts a functional interface.
And the argument and we've also got a static method return interface which returns to lambda expression
assigned to the return result.
Both of those, of course, used in our mind method.
All right.
So let's run this.
And there's the airport, as you can see, at the bottom of the screen.
So in this video and the previous one of describe the use of lambda expressions and method references
when using some of the stream operations, let's append some code back in our main method.
This produces a compiler error.
What do you think that is?
This is important to understand when you pass a method reference as a parameter to a method argument
defined by a functional interface, the method must have the same signature and return type as the functional
interface is only qualifying abstract method.
So in this example, the method I reference returns on my interface interface and not a method that
matches the signature of my interface to do something, the string do something parameter string method
and do that code or remove that error so that the code compiles and executes again.
So I'll be discussing additional examples of method references, what qualifies and doesn't in the next
video, as well as other common mistakes, unless used features that might crop up on an exam question.
See you in the next video.